(Yuma)
Last time on Yu-Gi-Oh! Zexal.
(Mr. Heartland)
This final, championship
battle
will take place in the
revolutionary new Sphere Field.
And you can rest assured that
this Sphere Field
will be an experience
that is out of this world.
Whenever you use Numbers,
the Sphere Field will absorb
the power they generate.
All right, I'‘m ready.
(both)
Let's duel.
I summon
Number 10!
Illumiknight!
Illumiknight.
That was
Kite's Number.
I overlay Level 4 Heraldic Beast
Aberconway and Leo.
I summon Number 30!
Acid Golem of Destruction!
Now I summon
Number 8!
Heraldic King
Genom-Heritage!
Now he has
three Numbers.
My turn.
Appear, Number 34...
Terror-Byte.
Now I summon
Number 17...
Leviathan Dragon.
Come on out
Number 39: Utopia.
(Mr. Heartland)
Each duelist has summoned three
powerful Numbers.
Whom will
lady luck smile upon today?
It's down to the wire and these
duelists are on fire.
♪
♪ If life is a game they say
I can't win ♪
♪ I'll never
amount to nothing ♪
♪ Tear me down before
my life begins ♪
♪ I won't be afraid
To challenge myself ♪
♪ They won't ever break
my fire ♪
♪ My dreams won't
die if I high-five the sky ♪
♪ Spread my wings take off
it's time to fly ♪
♪ Take a chance
to make it all the way ♪
♪ Take a chance forgetting
yesterday ♪
♪ Take a chance believe ♪
♪ Nothing will bring
me down ♪
♪ No retreat when I
leave all my fears behind ♪
♪ My future's still
alive inside ♪
♪ Take a chance
and chase my doubts away ♪
♪ Believing gets me through
my darkest days ♪
♪ Take a chance
to make it all the way ♪
♪ Take a chance forgetting
yesterday ♪
♪ Take a breath
my heart will lead the way ♪
♪ Take a chance I'll take
a chance today ♪
(Vetrix)
Three monsters,
I'm impressed, Yuma.
Maybe you're finally
getting lucky.
I don't have to get lucky
I have skill on my side.
We can win
this battle, Yuma.
Now make your move quickly.
Right.
I activate Leviathan Dragon's
special ability.
I'll use one Overlay Unit to
give it a 500 point power-up.
Go get him,
Leviathan Dragon!
Attack Illumiknight with
Sonic Shredding Stream!
And I'm not done yet.
Now go, Utopia!
Attack Genom-Heritage.
Rising Sun Slash!
So you destroyed
one monster, so what?
I still have my Acid Golem
on my field
and it has 3000 attack points.
Yeah?
Not anymore!
I activate the spell
XYZ Triangle Force.
When I have at
least three XYZ Monsters,
I can destroy one card
on your field.
All right, time
to take out Acid Golem.
Maybe I underestimated you,
Yuma.
You think?
'Cause without any Number Cards,
there's no way you can beat me.
In the end, Yuma
could actually pull this out.
Vetrix's got no cards
left in his hand.
No facedown cards either,
so Yuma's got this in the bag.
Yeah, Yuma'‘s
gonna win it.
You did it,
nice job.
My turn is finished,
Vetrix.
And soon you
will be, too.
Oh, come on now.
You don't seriously think
you can beat me, do you, Yuma?
You bet I do.
I'm gonna beat you
for what you did to Hart
and for what you
did to Kite.
Well, I'm afraid I'm
going to have to disappoint
all three of you.
You see, Yuma your
three monsters
can't come close
to defeating me.
What... why?
Because your deck
is no match for mine.
Now it's my turn to
feel the flow.
I'm just kidding.
It's my move!
I banish Heraldic Beast Unicorn
from my graveyard!
That lets me summon one
XYZ Monster from my graveyard
even though it loses its
special abilities.
I summon Illumiknight!
And now I banish another
Heraldic Beast Unicorn
from my graveyard
to summon Genom-Heritage!
It doesn't make
a difference, Vetrix.
My monsters have way more
attack points than yours do.
Unfortunately for us I do not
believe his intention
is to attack with
the monsters he has resurrected.
What?
If attacking were
his goal,
Vetrix would
have chosen Acid Golem
because it has the most
attack points.
Now I activate
the spell card Heraldry Reborn!
This brings back a Level 4
or below Heraldic Beast
from my graveyard.
Come on out Heraldic Beast
Berners Falcon!
I activate Berners Falcon's
special ability.
I can make all monsters on
my field have the same Level.
XYZ Monsters with Levels.
Now Vetrix has three
Level 4 monsters.
Not good.
I overlay Illumiknight,
Genom-Heritage
and Berners Falcon!
With these three monsters,
I build
the Overlay Network.
I XYZ Summon Number 69.
Heraldry Crest!
I was afraid he would
summon this Number, Yuma.
You guys,
that's the Number
that defeated Kite's
Neo Galaxy-Eyes.
Oh no.
This Number is a symbol.
A symbol of Vetrix's thirst
for vengeance.
Ah, the mighty
Heraldry Crest.
You're face to face
with defeat, Yuma.
You may as well come
face to face with me!
Oh, my word.
Byron.
Your-- your face.
Yes.
While I was wandering through
the chasm between dimensions
I experienced this interesting
transformation.
So while my heart
is filled with vengeance,
my poor face looks
rather empty.
Yuma, it is clear from
his appearance
that Vetrix's spirit
is no longer fully human.
(laughing)
(woman)
How did they
do that?
(man)
This is awesome.
(woman)Amazing.
They saved the coolest special
effects for the finals.
Yo guys, that's
not special effects.
You're right,
Bronk.
That's what Vetrix
really looks like.
Yuma, run away.
(Tori)
Yuma's not a
quitter.
And the least we can do
is let him know
we won't quit on him either.
Yuma, we're with you!
Yuma and Astral...
behold my power!
This is the greatest, most
powerful Number that I possess.
Allow me to explain
why.
First off, you can't
use any card effects
to destroy Heraldry Crest.
But not only that.
It also negates and steals your
monsters' special abilities.
Wait, it can use my
monsters' special abilities?
That's right, Yuma, so no matter
what monsters you have
they're powerless
against Heraldry Crest.
And now I'll prove your
father's high ideals
are just as
worthless as you are.
Heraldry Crest's special ability
activates... Whipping Lash!
(Astral)
He has stolen Leviathan Dragon's
special ability.
Now for a bitter taste
of your own medicine.
I activate its
newest ability.
By using one Overlay Unit,
my Heraldry Crest
gains 500 attack points
thanks to Leviathan Dragon.
Now I banish Heraldic Beast Leo
from my graveyard
to activate its
special ability.
Your monster loses
attack points
equal to the change in
my monster's attack points.
That's 500 attack points.
Now do it!
Destroy Leviathan Dragon.
Dark Matter Demolition!
That Number you used is
incredibly powerful.
I'm impressed, Byron.
Your thirst for vengeance
is even greater than I thought.
Ohh...
Can you go on, Yuma?
Yeah, I'‘m
just fine.
Liar.
Why not be smart
and give up while you can?
I'm not like Trey or Quattro
or Quinton, Yuma.
I'm invincible.
The power difference between
Heraldry Crest and you
is like the difference
between the power of
a parent and a child.
Yeah, you would say that
because you're a monster too
just like
Heraldry Crest is.
What?
I finally get
it now.
Quattro and Trey
and even Quinton too.
They were all great,
they were awesome.
They fought hard
to support themselves.
They fought even harder to
be there for each other.
And to the end, they
were all concerned about you.
But still, there's one thing
I don't get.
Why they threw everything
away for someone who's nothing.
You think they owed you their
lives because they're your kids
but you're wrong.
They had
complete faith in you.
They hoped you'd become a
regular dad again someday.
Yuma.
When you came back why
couldn't you do that for them?
Why couldn't you try
to be a father
instead of just
trying to get revenge?
It isn't possible for a child
like you to understand.
I do understand.
I understand exactly what it
feels like to lose a father.
And I guarantee that's
the feeling your sons had
when you went away.
But the sad truth is you
just didn't care, did you?
Be quiet.
How dare you talk
to me that way.
Well, I care about
this duel, Vetrix.
And I'm gonna fight for Quattro
and Trey and Quinton.
You throw
whatever you got at me,
but I'm never gonna
quit on them.
We'll see.
You'll be crushed by
Heraldry Crest soon enough.
So for now I'll just
end my turn.
Astral, there's
only one way to win.
You mean...
That's right, Astral.
Our only chance to beat him
is with the power of Zexal.
All right, it is time
for you and I to build
the Overlay Network.
(both)
Go Zexal Morph.
(Astral)
When two distant
souls become one
the power of Zexal
is revealed!
What is Zexal?
(man)
What's with
the costume change?
Zexal-- that's the power of
the bond between Yuma and Astral
How's Yuma gonna explain this
when the duel's over?
Your guess is
as good as mine.
Maybe the crowd thinks
it's virtual reality?
Well real or virtual, Yuma
looks totally amazing.
(woman)
And he's an
amazing duelist.
(woman)
I hope he wins.
(woman 3)
Let's make sure
he knows it.
(crowd chanting)
Go Yuma, Go Yuma.
Go Yuma, Go Yuma, Go Yuma...
Hey, the crowd's
really with him.
Yuma, everybody is cheering for
you and Astral to win
so don't you let us down.
(crowd)
Go Yuma, Go Yuma,
Go Yuma, Go Yuma...
My, my, I wonder
if you two
have any other
surprises in store for me.
What now, Astral?
(Astral)
I suggest we focus on
the duel, Yuma.
Yeah, well, that's what
I was just gonna suggest.
My turn, I draw.
Yuma, you know what you must
do now don't you?
You better
believe I do.
Go Chaos XYZ Evolution!
Appear, Chaos Number 39
Utopia Ray.
Your Utopia Ray
is very nice, Yuma,
but it can't change
things.
I activate Heraldry Crest's
special ability Whipping Lash.
Now I'll take your
special abilities
and make them
my own, Utopia Ray.
I won't let you.
I activate the spell card
Seven Store.
With Seven Store,
by tributing one XYZ Monster,
we get to draw one card.
I select Terror-Byte.
Next, I get
to draw a card
for every Overlay Unit
that Terror-Byte had.
Because Terror-Byte
had two Overlay Units,
I get to draw a total
of three cards now.
A truly powerful duelist can
shape the outcome of a duel.
He can even generate the very
card that he needs to draw.
Let's do it, Astral.
(both)
Go Shining Draw.
Perfect.
Heraldry Crest can steal Yuma's
monster's special abilities
but it cannot
steal the powers of cards
that are equipped to it.
Very clever,
quite ingenious.
Now I equip Utopia Ray with
Zexal Weapon-Lightning Blade.
Utopia Ray gains
1200 attack points.
Not only that,
you can no longer destroy
Yuma's spell and trap cards.
Go, Utopia Ray!
Lightning Blade Strike!
As I expected.
But I'm afraid all
I have to do to stop you
is activate Heraldry Crest's
special ability!
I can use one Overlay Unit
to destroy a card on the field
and I choose Utopia Ray!
No.
Oh yes!
Now I'll show you
the true power of my Number.
Go, Heraldry Crest!
Shatter Stream!
(Vetrix)
Go, Shatter Stream!
Ha, don'‘t think so.
I activate
Lightning Blade's effect.
By returning Lightning Blade
to my hand,
Utopia Ray
avoids destruction.
Nice stalling tactic
but it isn't going to stop
the inevitable, Yuma.
Utopia Ray is finished.
Destroy it,
Heraldry Crest!
Crush Utopia Ray!
From the graveyard I activate
Bacon Saver's special ability.
What's that do?
By banishing Bacon Saver,
Utopia Ray avoids destruction,
and Yuma does not take
any damage.
You are the pig,
Bacon Saver.
What a lame maneuver.
I can't believe you had that
horrible hog in your graveyard.
Utopia Ray once again equips
Lightning Blade!
I place one card facedown
and end my turn.
You're resilient
like your father, Yuma.
It's a trait you both share
with cockroaches.
You can insult
my father and me
but know that no matter
what you say or do,
you can never
make us give up!